---
layout: post
title: Deep Learning Notes: Chapter 1 Introduction
---

# Deep Learning Chapter 1 Introduction

In the early days of AI, the field rapidly tackled and solved problems that are intellectually difficult for human beings but relatively straightforward for computers --- problems that can be described by a list of formal (形式化), mathematical rules. 
Reason: Abstract and formal tasks that are among the most difficult mental undertakings for a human being are among the easiest for a computer.

Challenge to AI:  Problems that human solve intuitively, but hard to describe formally. 
Example: Recognizing spoken words or faces in images. 
Key challenge: How to get informal (非形式化) knowledge into a computer.
A solution: Machine learning. 

Challenge to simple machine learning: The performance of simple machine learning algorithms depends heavily on the representation of the data they are given. 
Key challenge: What features should be extracted. Feature (特征): The piece of information included in the representation. 
A solution: Representation learning. 

Goal of representation learning: To separate the factors of variation that explain the observed data. Factors: Sources of influence, can be thought of as concepts or abstractions that help us make sense of the rich variability of the data.

Challenge to representation learning: Disentangle the factors of variation and discard the ones that we do not care about.
A solution: Deep learning. 

Method: Introducing representations that are expressed in terms of other, simpler representations.

Two main ways of measuring the depth of a mode:
1. The depth of the computational graph.
2. the depth of the graph describing how concepts are related to each other. It is used by deep probabilistic models, 

